In this chapter we are going to talk about boosting.
So boosting can be use for classification as well as for regression.
It has to reduce variance and bias.
This is what we have been talking about in the previous chapter when discussing pruning and bagging
that these methods are able to reduce variance and it is the same for boosting.
The aim is to reduce variance.
OK so begging and boosting are very very similar approaches.
But there's a huge difference.
So while begging creates multiple copies of the original data and construct several decision trees on
the co-pays and combining all the trees to make predictions we can say that the algorithm constructs
these trees independently.
So what do I mean exactly.
I mean that if we have a given dataset and if we know what features to use as far as the random forests
are concerned than constructing the tree like structures are independent of each other of course in
the end some of these decision trees may be correlated but it doesn't matter what's important that as
far as the construction is concerned we are able to generate these decision trees independent of each
other basically in a parallel manner.
OK.
On the other hand boosting is a see commercial algorithm.
So here are the decision trees are grown SIKMA initially.
So each tree is grown using information from previously grown trees.
So these trees are not independent from each other because boosting is a sequence Shanell learning algorithm.
So when constructing decision trees in a random forest classifier these trees are independent of each
other as far as boosting is concerned.
We are going to generate the first decision tree down in the next iteration or we are going to generate
the next decision tree based on information regarding the first decision tree.
Ok then in the next iteration we are going to generate the Circuit decision tree based on the information
of the previous decision trees and so on.
So it is a sequential algorithm.
We keep constructing more and more decision trees in order to be able to make better and better predictions.
OK so that's the main difference between boosting and bagging and it is our counter intuitive theory
because we are able to combine a weak learners in order to end up with a powerful classifier so weak
learners are just a bit better than a random guess says or coin flips.
OK.
Boosting usually uses decisions stamps.
So what does it mean.
These are decision trees.
We did that one.
So for example this is a decision stamp it has just a root node.
And that child and are-I child.
So this is a decision stamp Where did that warm.
OK so by fitting small decision trees we slowly improve the final result in cases when it doesn't perform
out OK.
By the way we are going to talk about additive boosting or add a boost.
I go to them in the coming lectures.
So why do we have to talk about boosting.
First of all because it is a rather powerful approach and it has lots of lots of useful applications.
And the most important application of boosting is the viola Jones phase detection algorithm used by
open C library.
So it combines decision stands in order to detect faces the learners decide whether a given section
of that image contains a face or not and it is an extremely accurate algorithm.
On the other hand it is quite fast.
So this is the standard algorithm in order to detect faces in one of the coming chapters.
We are going to talk about phase detection.
So we are going to talk a lot more about boosting and Viola Jones algorithm in the next lecture.
We are going to see a concrete illustration of how boosting algorithm works.
Thanks for watching.